So now to answer the questions
about quotas and
I promise you that after these we will go
to our project and we will start coding.
Quotas and persistence, so quota includes.
There is one quota for all storages.
All the data from local storage indexedDB
and cache storage, they go to quotas or
they will go to quotas in the future.
Today, maybe local storage
is kind of separate.
Also, when you're using
the origin private file system,
remember that the Photoshop WebKit API.
Well, if you're storing 500 megabytes,
it goes to your quota.
Also service worker registrations.
So when you register a service worker,
the service worker itself, the file,
and all the dependencies of that service
worker are going to restore in your quota.
Yeah, typically they are charged
confines they're not like in the terms
of megabytes, but
anyway they are using your quotas, okay?
Also Web App Manifests for installed PWAs.
So the Manifest and
the icon from the Manifest or
the data is also been
it's part of your quota.
Quota does not include cookies,
files cached by the browser.
So if the browser is caching some
of your images and logos and
CSS using the standard HTP cache headers,
those are not part of your quota.
Session storage is not part of your quota.
Files is created with the file system
on the real file system because they
are being stored in
the real user file system.
So it's not part of the quota
that means that using that API
you can actually use or download gigabytes
terabytes of data if you want, okay?
So you don't have a limit.
Of course,
you need permission from the user.
That's the difference, okay?
Because there is an explicit
permission from the user,
yeah, you can bypass any kind of quota.
Now the real answer code as per browser,
how does it work?
Chromium is 60% of the total
disk space per origin.
So I have 2 terabytes, so
60% of 2 terabytes is what I can store.
Actually the algorithm will be more
complex, but it doesn't matter to get so
deep because Chrome as the whole
browser can start up to 80%.
But then is 60% per origin.
But 80% in total.
So it's a mix, okay, but roughly 60%
of the total disk space, which is a lot.
Remember that you don't need
permission from the user to store data.
Firefox, today it's 50% of the total disk
space with a maximum of
2GB per group of eTLD +1.
So on firefox,
well I have two terabytes it will be two
gigabytes because that's
the maximum per group.
So my domain and also my sub
domains are part of the same group.
On Chromium, every origins so
every subdomain has its own quota.
Make sense?
What about Safari?
Today it's 1GB per partition.
Remember that if your web app
doesn't work as an iframe,
it's your host, your domain, your origin.
So it's 1GB per origin, but
this is the only browser
that allows the user to
bypass that limit with
a user's permission.
Is the only one.
So there is no permission API to do this.
At the moment that you you
store one bite over your quota,
Safari will render a dialog
asking the user Hey,
do you allow this website to
store up to 1.2 gigabytes?
And when you go and say one more right
over that, another dialog will appear.
Do you allow this website you store 1.4,
gigabytes, and so on.
Okay, make sense?
So you can see that safely
1 GB is everywhere.
That is a lot to be honest, for a web app,
unless you're doing video editing or
something like that, okay, for most web
apps out there should be good enough.
You have any questions?
>> This might be getting into the weeds,
feel welcome to be like, yeah,
we'll discuss it later or whenever.
But for partition origin eTL D+1,
conflict.
It's like I recall in previous position,
one reason we elected not
to go with indexedDB was a fear of
silent purges of like larger data.
Because depending on what the user already
had on their computer from other origins.
>> Okay, yeah.
>> Is that something we'll discuss
later is that we, [CROSSTALK]
>> Will see that later that later is now
anyway.
[LAUGH] So but before that there
are more complexity on top of that.
For example, Chrome in incognito
mode instead of being 60%
of the total space is 5%
of the total space, okay?
And also when you close incognito mode,
everything will be cleared out.
That's the idea, right?
If Chrome is enabled with a setting
that says clear cookies and
site data when you close on Windows,
your quota goes down immediately
to 300 megabytes only.
Fortunately, not a lot of users
are marking that option anyway, okay?
And other browsers in private mode,
it depends on the browser, but
sometimes you cannot use the API,
so the API is not available.
Or the storage is ephemeral,
so it's going to be removed.
So you don't have any quota.
So at the end it will be removed.
So it's memory only, okay?
So it's complicated in that situation,
yeah.
>> Clarification, so
when the API's are not available,
does that mean that they'll throw or
an exception?
>> They'll throw an exception.
>> Interesting.
>> Security exception or DOM exception,
it depends on the API you're using.
>> Okay.
>> Different exceptions will be formed.
Another example, okay, before answering
the question is, but this is a quick one.
This is a website that
I've been demoing for
almost 10 years, filldisk.com.
When you get into fillthis.com.
In fact, it's not even HTTPS.
So look how well the website
is it's not even HTTPS.
So filldisk.com, what is going to try and
to do it depends on the browser.
And how it works, okay?
It will fill your disk with images of
cats in local storage, okay?
Not even in IndexedDB.
And you say, okay,
how is this even happening?
Okay, a local storage and it will go
over your one gigabyte quota, okay?
Of course, here you can stop the madness.
Hey, so once you already know here,
in fact, look at the website,
whether it's talking about, IE.
And the Firefox is immune.
He is Hackery.
So this is a very old website, and
this is still working on some browsers.
I will explain what happened
this is trick, okay?
But it actually works.
So and also not nonsecure will you go
over one gigabyte, what do you think?
We are close to it.
We can wait a couple of seconds while
it's the cuts are in my harddrive.
Yep it went through over the quarter so
let's stop the madness
playing what's going on.
This website among changing the background
and changing the background color,
can you see this changing.
And also adding cuts to my computer
is doing this filldisk.com, right?
So using iframes it's opening
an iframe to 0.filldisks.com.
So we'd save in five megabytes of cuts in
local storage here then one.filldisks.com.
Another five megabytes of cuts on
NBC will iframes that you don't
actually see they can be see what
I'm not to that filldisk.com.
Actually what they have is a Wilker
on DNS so star.filldisks.com
will actually point to the same
server to the same script file.
And then they have you can store cats
5 megabytes per infinite subdomains.
Because Firefox has this eTLD+1 thing,
that's why it was immune.
>> [INAUDIBLE] And
they're rating these images,
these flat files, to local storage?
>> Yeah, how, Base64.
So because they are on local storage,
you can only store text strings.
So then you take the image, and
you convert that into base 64.
But this is just to finish
the part of quotas,
and how tricky can this be.
Mostly when you can have I frames and
things like that, okay?
Makes sense?
And because local storage is not
actually part of your real quota.
That's why partitions are not
taking effect in Safari here,
because when you have iFrames remember
that it's creating partitions.
But anyway, it's occupying my hard drive.
So you can get to a website
that has a hidden code.
That it's not showing you,
you can not stop the madness.
And then it's eating your heart
right prespray easily, okay?
So the next question has
to do with addiction.
So because yeah, if I can store gigabytes,
terabytes of data, we have a limit, okay?
So it sounds scary.
That every website that you
visit can store up to 1GB
without your consent,
without your permission.
Well, the storage per origin
in different browsers
can be defined as best effort or
persistent, okay?
So, on best effort, that is the default
state Per origin on every browser.
On best effort, the browser can clear
the storage on storage pressure.
That's when the user is with low
storage on the phone, on your computer.
It depends on the browser.
The final algorithm typically is
around 10% of the available space.
So if if there is less than 10% of
the available space in the harddrive,
then the browser will say okay, it's time
to start deleting data from Origins, okay?
Also after some time of
inactivity that's Safari,
Safari today, they say,
but it's to be honest.
This is actually difficult to
prove that it's true, okay?
I tried to prove that,
I couldn't prove that.
But officially in their blog they say
that after seven days of inactivity,
Safari will clear storage of
websites without activity.
So you go to disneys.com,
if you don't come back for
seven days, so far it says,
it may clear everything that you have.
Service worker installation, indexedDB,
local storage and everything.
That sounds scary, but give me a sec.
Also with users intervention,
it can be really and
the user can go to settings and
clear the data, okay?
But persistent storage
will keep the storage
unless user intervention happens, okay?
That's what typically we
want as a web app developer.
We don't want our data to be
deleted in the storage pressure.
So that's why we have persistent.
Persistent storage in our origin
will keep all the data unless
user intervention happens.
So the user is always in control.
So if the user goes to settings and
clears the data, the data is gone,
no matter what.
But also see if the device is reset and
so on, but that's all.
No storage pressure, no inactivity.
So, at this point,
you have the phase of "Okay,
how can I get persistent storage?" Because
it doesn't clear the data
on storage pressure.
So, this is something
that we need to request.
So first, on iOS and iPadOS,
with Safari, it works in best effort.
So eviction can happen on a storage
pressure after 7 days of inactivity,
or if the user goes to Settings,
Safari, Clear, okay?
With installed PWAs is persistent
storage by default, that's good, okay?
So if the user is installing your PWA,
eviction can only happen if the user
goes to settings and clear the data.
So that's an advantage for
the user when installing the PWA.
Firefox, and chromium based browsers,
they are also best effort by default and
eviction can happen on
a Storage Pressure or under settings.
If the user goes to settings, okay,
when uninstalling the PWA, so
if the user has installed PWA.
If the user uninstalled the PWA, the user
may have the option to delete the data.
So this is something that from a UX
perspective that Chrome has added.
So think about this.
You install a PWA.
Okay, so when you do that,
you see an app, right?
So you see an app On Android or an iPhone
on Windows or Mac or Linux, it's an app.
So think about now you uninstall the app.
The user thinks that if you uninstall
the app, you delete everything, right?
But because the PWA is kind
of a browser tab at the end,
the data is still in the browser.
So because of that when
you uninstall a PWA,
today you receive a message saying
I can show you this in action.
For example, this is a PWA Squoosh
that I have installed.
If I uninstall the app, I can also remove
the data from Chrome, because I can.
If you uninstall the app,
your data will still be there in Chrome.